
**Al Jolson**, was the number one performer on the American song stage for many years. A song sung by Jolson was almost guaranteed to be a hit. Jolson billed himself as ‘The World’s Greatest Entertainer’ and who could argue? Working in blackface, he sang songs about his southern ‘Mammy’ with a passion that endeared him to Broadway audiences. His voice, was probably the most imitated and parodied in the world. As a musical comedy star, he belted out songs like *Swanee* and *Is It True What They Say About Dixie?* with flair and always demanding applause for his songs and jokes, he was rarely disappointed. ‘Electric’, ‘dynamic energy’ and ‘like a cyclone’ were some of the terms used to describe his performances on stage; and after singing for three hours with incredible energy, he could still call out: “You ain’t heard nothin’ yet.” Though kind and sentimental, he left much to be desired as a human being. His was an enormous ego. He could be arrogant, surly and a braggart and many of his contemporaries disliked him. But he was a giant in the entertainment world, a hit maker, and always last on the bill because no one could follow him. Though four times married, the love of his life was an audience - any audience. He needed applause the way a diabetic needs insulin. 
Al Jolson did not just sing songs - he rattled your backbone and made you want to get up and dance. He was probably the greatest entertainer the world has ever known. (from the Al Jolson site at: http://www.times1190.freeserve.co.uk/jolson. For more about Jolson, see our in depth Jolson biography as well as ourspecial feature on his music.