!{}(/images/tennyson.jpg)
**Alfred Tennyson**, 1st Baron Tennyson (6 August 1809 – 6 October 1892) was Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom and remains one of the most popular English poets. Tennyson was born in Somersby, Lincolnshire, a rector's son and fourth of 12 children. He was one of the descendants of King Edward III of England. Reportedly, "the pedigree of his grandfather, George Tennyson, is traced back to the middle-class line of the Tennysons, and through Elizabeth Clayton ten generations back to Edmund, Duke of Somerset, and farther back to Edward III. Tennyson excelled at penning short lyrics, including *In the valley of Cauteretz*, *Break, break, break*, "*he Charge of the Light Brigade*, *Tears, idle tears* and *Crossing the Bar*. Much of his verse was based on classical mythological themes, although *In Memoriam A.H.H.* was written to commemorate his best friend Arthur Hallam, a fellow poet and classmate at Trinity College, Cambridge, who was engaged to Tennyson's sister, but died from a cerebral hemorrhage before they were married. Tennyson also wrote some notable blank verse including *Idylls of the King*, *Ulysses*, and *Tithonus*. During his career, Tennyson attempted drama, but his plays enjoyed little success in his lifetime. Tennyson wrote a number of phrases that have become commonplaces of the English language, including: "nature, red in tooth and claw", "better to have loved and lost", "Theirs not to reason why, / Theirs but to do and die", and "My strength is as the strength of ten, / Because my heart is pure". He is the second most frequently quoted writer in The Oxford Dictionary of Quotations, after Shakespeare! Much of his verse has been used as the basis for lyrics in a number of popular songs including *The May Queen*, an 1848 song that is based on his poem of the same title. (Partly extracted from Wikipedia and used under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License.) 


 