
**Archie Gottler** (1896 - 1959) is perhaps most famous for his patriotic song *America I Love You*, (see our March, 1998 feature) introduced by Eva Tanguay in 1915. He wrote a number of classic American songs including two in collaboration with Maceo Pinkard; *Don't Be Like That* and *Lila*, which Fred Waring's Pennsylvanians later recorded on a best selling disc. His songs are marked by wonderful melodies and patriotic fervor. In one case, he showed his good humor with the novelty War song, *Would You Rather Be A Colonel With An Eagle On Your Shoulder Or A Private With A Chicken On Your Knee?*. Gottler also wrote a number of Broadway show scores as well as early sound movie scores. Gottler wrote several very popular songs and several Broadway musicals including the *Broadway Brevities* starring Eddie Cantor which opened at Winter Garden Theatre, September 29,1920 and ran for 105 performances. He attended CCNY and Long Island Business College. He was a pianist in silent movie theaters early in his career. Gottler also served in the Signal Corps during WWII as a producer of training films. Among his other Broadway scores was the *Zeigfeld Follies of 1918* and *Good Boy* in 1928. Gottler was also a pioneer composer for early silent films composing scores for The *Fox Movietone Follies of 1929* and the film, *Happy Days* in 1930. During his career he collaborated with a number of the big name lyricists of the period and even brought his son, Jerome, into the business as a lyricist to his music. Among his other successful songs are *In The Gold Fields Of Nevada* (1915), *Nobody Else But Elsie* (date unkn.), *That's How I Feel About You* (1928), *Roamin' Through The Roses* (1933), and *Mammy's Chocolate Soldier* (1918). Gottler died in California.