
**Caro Roma** (1866 - 1937) was the stage name for Carrie Northly (use of pseudonyms is one of the problems in finding reliable information about many women composers). Northly was born in California in 1866 to a father who had moved there to take part in the gold rush and by age three was performing on stage. Her talent prompted her family to send her to Boston to study at the prestigeoius New England Conservatory of Music at an early age. By the time she was a teenager, she was retained by a French Opera company on tour in Canada as their orchestra conductor. When she returned to Boston she joined the Henry Savage Opera Company and soon became prima donna. She sang opera in San Fransisco as well as Europe and performed for Royalty in several countries. 
At the same time she was developing as a classical performer, she developed her writing and compositional skills. From early childhood, she wrote songs and poetry and wrote over 2,500 poems during her life, many of which she set to music. Interestingly, she wrote a number of sea songs and composed at least one song cycle, *The Wandering One*, with lyrics by Clement Scott. Besides her most famous song, *Can't Yo' Heah Me Calling*, she also wrote; *Faded Rose*, *The Angelus*, *Thinking of Thee* and *Resignation*. In collaboration with the famed "Irish" song composer Ernest R. Ball she also wrote lyrics for *In The Garden Of My Heart*, *Love Me Today and Tomorrow May Never Come*. In 1932 Roma gave a concert at age 71 in Los Angles where she personally performed 19 of her own compositions. She died in California in 1937 


 