
**Cole Porter** (b. 1892 - d. 1964) Born in Peru, Indiana, Porter attended Yale and graduated in 1913. While at Yale he wrote the "Bulldog" song, (*Bulldog! Bulldog! Bow Wow Wow! Eli, Eli Yale! Bulldog! Bulldog! Bow Wow Wow! Our Team will never fail!*) the official fight song of Yale. A rather inauspicious start to his songwriting career. After Yale, Porter attended Harvard where he did not write a song (as far as I can find). During the First World War, Porter joined the French Foreign Legion and served as an officer during the war. This aspect of his career was given coverage in the 1946 film biography of Porter, *Night and Day*, starring Carey Grant as Porter. In the film, the composition of Porter's *Night and Day* takes place on the battlefield during a lull in fighting. However, the song was not really composed until 1932. After the war, Porter stayed in France and studied with the composer Vincent D'Indy in Paris. A more recent film about Porter, also titled after one of his songs, *D'Lovely* starring Kevin Kline was issued in 2004.
In 1937, Porter was seriously injured in a horseback riding accident that put him in a hospital; for two years and resulted in further confinement to a wheelchair for five more years. Continuing problems over twenty years culminated in the amputation of his leg in 1958. Despite his hardships, Porter managed to produce some of America's greatest songs and Broadway productions. His first show, *See America First*, described as an opera in two acts was not very well-received by audiences and only ran for 15 performances before closing. Among his other Broadway productions are: *Paris* (1928), *Fifty Million Frenchmen* (1929) *The Gay Divorcee* (1932), *Anything Goes* (1934), *DuBarry Was A Lady* (1939), *The Man Who Came To Dinner* (1939) and *Kiss Me Kate* (1948).
Porter's hit songs are more than I can list here but among his best known are: *Old Fashioned Garden* (1919) *You Do Something To Me* (1929), *What Is This Thing Called Love* (1929), *Let's Do It* (1928), *Night and Day* (1932), *I Get A Kick Out Of You* (1934), *Begin The Beguine* (1935), *I Love Paris* (1953) and *I've Got You Under My Skin* (1936).
Porter died in Santa Monica, California in 1964 