
**Dorothy Terriss** (1890 - 1953) also often known as Theodora Morse, was born in White Plains New York in 1890. There are conflicting reports in several sources regarding her name. Probably the most reliable source; American Women Songwriters by Virginia Grattan states she was born Terris. Other sources say Terris was a pseudonym. Those sources offer no other indication of her maiden name so I'm inclined to believe Grattan's version. Terris later married Theodore Morse and wrote under the name of Theodora Morse. She also wrote using the name Dolly Morse and D.A. Esrom (Morse backwards). She was one of American popular music's finest lyricists and contributed to many of her husband's songs. Terriss & Morse were one of the earliest Tin Pan Alley husband-wife songwriting teams. Theodora not only wrote with her husband, but also collaborated with other composers. Though her work helped with her husband's success, her most successful songs were not with her husband, but with others. Some of those successes were: *Siboney*, with music by Ernesto Leucuona and her most famous work, *Three O'Clock in the Morning*, with Julian Robeldo and the beautiful waltz song, *Wonderful One* in collaboration with jazz great, Paul Whiteman. Terriss also wrote many Hawaiian themed songs and was the lyricist for the great 1917 Morse song, *Hail, Hail The Gang's All Here*. In April of 2003, I heard from one of Theodora's relatives, Teddy Furst Martin who is Morse's granddaughter. Martin offered a few corrections that are very helpful.
Martin tells us that Morse was actually born in Brooklyn, NY in 1883, not 1890, and thather maiden name was Alfreda Theodora Strandberg. She married Theodore Morse on March 7, 1907. Ms. Martin said that "Dada", as she called her, was quite a strong and independent woman and a role model for her. Martin lived with Morse from 1942 till 1950.


 