
**F. Henri Klickmann** (1885 - 1966) also wrote, *Floatin' Down to Cotton Town* in 1919 with Jack Frost and *Waters of The Perkiomen* in 1935. Klickman was an extremely versatile composer having written many instrumental and ragtime compositions such as *A Trombone Jag* (1910) and *High Yellow Cake Walk and Two Step* (1915) as well as a wide variety of songs. Interestingly, *Waters of The Perkiomen* was originally a work for accordian. Klickmann wrote quite a few pieces for accodian and is one of the more popular composers for that instrument. In addition to all this, he also wrote "classical" style music, including a concerto for tenor sax. Klickmann wrote a large number of ragtime works that are popular in today's resurgence of ragtime interest. A simple search of the internet will return many, many references to his music and a number of sites that feature his music. 
He was well known as not only a composer but as an orchestrator and arranged music for a number of acts including the famous Six Brown Brothers who were responsible for the popularization of the saxophone in vaudeville and recording. Klickmann composed a number of pieces they recorded in 1916 and 1917 as well as published commercial arrangements of them including the tune *Chicken Walk*. There is an audible improvement from 1914-15 in the sophistication of the writing attributed to Klickmann. Klickmann composed in a wide range of popular styles and his hits include; *Sweet Hawaiian Moonlight*; *Good-Bye* (1914) a "hesitation waltz"; *Knockout Drops Rag*; *The Dallas Blues* (1912), and *My Sweetheart Went Down with the Ship*, a 1912 tear jerker about the Titanic. With a long and fruitful life, Klickmann turned to arranging in later years and arranged some of Zez Confrey's great piano jazz works such as *Kitten On The Keys*.