
**George L. Spaulding** was born December 26, 1864, at Newburgh, New York. He studied piano with local teachers. When he was sixteen he moved to Brooklyn, where he studied harmony for a short time with an organist of that city. Since that time he has been entirely self-taught. For many years he was in the music publishing and selling business, first as a music clerk, and then in partnership with others.
His first adventures in musical composition were in the form of popular songs. Among these were the *Volunteer Organist*, *Two Little Girls in Blue* and others which had very large sales at the time.
It was discovered, however, that he had a splendid talent for writing simple pianoforte pieces with well defined melodies and effective harmony. These he turned out in great number, among his most popular being: *Sing, Robin, Sing - Pretty Little Song Bird*, *Airy Fairies*, *Child's Good Night*, *Dollie's Dream*, *June Roses*, *Just a Bunch of Flowers*, and *Mountain Pink*.
His Tunes and Rhymes for the Playroom, *Souvenirs of the Masters*, Well Known Fables Set to Music are among the most widely used collections of easy pianoforte pieces in book form. Two little operettas for children, *A Day in Flowerdom* and *The Isle of Jewels* have placed Mr. Spaulding in the front rank among writers of juvenile entertainment material. His wife, Jessica Moore, a talented poetess, wrote many of his verses.
Mr. Spaulding's works have served an important purpose in juvenile education. Fortunately they were of a nature and of a quantity which will make this felt for many years to come. His elementary technical books have also made an interesting place for themselves. (Biography courtesy of Wikepedia, the free encyclopedia taken from an Etude magazine article. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this article under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover Texts. A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation License". Content on Wikipedia is covered by disclaimers.)



 