
**George Linus Cobb** ( b. Mexico, New York on August 31, 1886, d. Brookline, Mass. December 25, 1942) was best known for his Ragtime works such as *Russian Rag* featured in our Ragtime Edition in June, 1999. Educated at Syracuse University, he won a composition contest in Buffalo with the song *Buffalo Means Business*. He started out writing mostly Rags then moved to NYC and started writing songs in Tin Pan Alley. He went to work for Boston publisher Walter Jacobs and later became editor for Jacob's music magazine *The Tuneful Yankee*, later renamed to *Melody*. and wrote a monthly column giving advice to would be songwriters. His first published Rag was *Rubber Plant Rag*, in 1909. That was followed by *Canned Corn Rag* in 1910 and *Bunny Hug Rag* in 1913. That same year he collaborated with the great Jack Yellen and wrote the hit song *All Aboard For Dixieland*. Cobb seemed to find a "zone" with the Dixie songs and wrote several other big hits with Dixie themes including the million seller, *Alabama Jubilee* in 1913 and a later hit *Are You From Dixie?* in 1915. The afore mentioned *Russian Rag* was written in 1918 and it too sold over a million copies and became a perennial vaudeville virtuoso favorite for many years. The song was such a hit that the publisher asked Cobb to write another Rag using the same Rachmaninoff prelude as a basis. Cobb then penned *The New Russian Rag*. Both Russian Rags are considered masterpieces and are still favorites of skilled pianists the world around.