
**George Loder**, (1816 - 1868) the composer of *Take Your Time Miss Lucy* (1842) is titled simply as "Music Director" inside the sheet on the title page. He was in fact, the music director of the Olympic Theater in New York and listed there as an arranger, composer, producer and writer. He is credited with the production of several stage shows at the Olympic and other New York theaters from 1840 through 1851. His first production here was *La Musquito*, a musical comedy, in May of 1840 at the Olympic. Loder was born in Bath, England in 1816 and emigrated to the US in 1836 and settled in Baltimore. He first appeared on the musical scene in New York as a composer and conductor in the 1839-40 season. In 1842, he was a founding member of the New York Philharmonic Symphony Society and also played double bass in the orchestra for several seasons. He conducted the American premiere of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony in May of 1846 and continued as a conductor for the Philharmonic for seven seasons.In 1844 he became the principal of the New York Vocal institute and compiled The New York Glee Book for them in 1843 . He also published The Philadelphia and New York Glee Book in 1857. 
In 1856 Loder traveled to Australia to conduct an opera company and then in 1860 was in London where he published two comic operettas, *Pets of the Parterre* and *The Old House at Home* for performance at the Lyceum. In 1863 he returned to Australia for another visit and conducted the first Australian performance of *Les Hugenots*. While in Australia he contracted a lingering illness and died in Adelaide in July of 1868.
Though Loder was not a native American, he is one of the more prominent contributors to the development of music in America during the 1840's and it was certainly our loss that he was unable to return to America to continue writing, producing and leading the continued development of the musical society in New York. (Principal biographical facts from the New Grove Encyclopedia of American Music, Vol3, p.97)