
**Gussie Lord Davis**, (b Dayton, Ohio, 1863 - d. New York, 1899) one of the late 19th century's first commercially successful African-American songwriters. Davis was probably the first Black man to gain success in Tin Pan Alley. He held a number of jobs before becoming involved with music. At one time he was a Porter on the Railroads, and later was a janitor at the Cincinnati Conservatory of Music. It was while sweeping the floors at the conservatory, that he managed to pick up bits and pieces of musical knowledge, and was soon writing ballads. The only musical training he gained was from private study provided him by teachers at the Cincinnati Conservatory. His first published work was in 1880, *We Sat Beneath The Maple On The Hill*. He later became a protégé of songwriter James E. Stewart who helped Davis break into the music publishing world,. In 1890 he moved to New York and soon became one of Tin Pan Alley's top songwriters. In 1895 he won second place in a contest for the ten best songwriters in the USA. He was the first Black songwriter to win international acclaim for his ballads. The New Grove Dictionary Of American Music describes his music as "sweet lyrical melodies in waltz rhythm with heart wrenching texts". Among the over 300 songs Davis published were a number of other popular works including; *If I Only Could Blot Out the Past*, (1896), *My Creole Sue*, (1898), *My Little Belle Creole*, (1900) and another wedding tearjerker, *She Waited at the Altar in Vain* in 1897. Davis'greatest hit was the 1896 *In The Baggage Coach Ahead* (also a supreme tear jerker). Supposedly, when Davis was a railroad porter, he found a young child crying. The child's mother was "in the car ahead', in a coffin. A fellow porter, moved by the tale, wrote a poem about it. Years later, Davis set this poem to music, and sold it outright to publisher Howley, Haviland and Dresser for just a few dollars. Howley induced Imogene Comer to use the song in her act, and it brought a small fortune for the publisher, but nothing more for Davis. 