
**Harry Puck**, (b. May 15, 1891 in Brooklyn, NY - d. January 2, 1964 in Metuchen, NJ.) From about 1898-1911 he was part of a brother sister vaudeville act with his sister Eva, known as the Two Pucks. (They were also song "pluggers" and were the featured artists in numerous song sheets, several by Von Tilzer. (so they were familiar even as children with Tin Pan alley). After his sister's marriage, he turned his attention to composing and music publishing (Kalmar & Puck 1913-1915; and Kalmar, Puck & Abrahams 1915-1918). He was most active in these fields 1913-1918. After his sister's return to the stage, they had a short-lived reunion as a vaudeville act, before going their separate ways onto the Broadway musical stage, were they both became well known musical comedy feature actors. In later years he worked for the Shubert brothers in New York and for Paramount Pictures in Hollywood, CA, eventually returning to New York to go into business.Among the songs which he wrote are: *Loving Eyes* (1907), *Over the Garden Wall* (1913), *Everybody Snap Your Fingers With Me* (1913), *That's Why I Never Go Home* (1913), *Where Did You Get That Girl?* (1913), *My Hidden Treasure*, (1913), *Kiss Me Like You've Never Been Kissed Before* (1913), *California and You* (1914), *The Little House Upon the Hill* (1915) and *Johnny, Get a Girl* in 1916. As a performer, he appeared in a number of Broadway shows including; 1921 - *Tangerine*, 1924 - *Lollipop*, 1926 - *Twinkle Twinkle* and 1930 - *Three Little Girls*. In 1913, the year that the US Post Office inaugurated parcel post service Puck wrote *My Parcel Post Man* with lyrics by Bert Kalmar. (Biographical information graciously provided to us by Georgina Z. McWherter)