
**Harry Sanderson**. Sanderson was a fairly prolific writer of Polkas, Schottisches, Galops and other dances as well as a smattering of a few songs. His composing period extended from around 1850 well into the 70's. Sanderson and Gottschalk were close friends and Sanderson was more well known as an accomplished piano virtuoso than a composer. We gain some insight into Sanderson's talent from an article published in the Wall Street Journal on December 14, 1864: 

>"Mr. HARRY SANDERSON. -- It is not altogether a happy conjunction of circumstances that induces this well-known pianist to seek, each returning Winter, both profit and health in the torrid regions of the West Indies. At most, it is but fortunate that his talents enable him thus to affect two objects at once, for without health there are no riches. Mr. HARRY SANDERSON sails to-day for Havana, and in all friendliness we wish him good speed. He is in every respect a remarkable artist. Without possessing the routine-technical ability of the schools, he yet commands a facility of his own that is almost unattainable by others. His execution is as singularly brilliant as it is original. No one who has heard Mr. SANDERSON play his "Study in Octaves," can withhold from that gentleman the largest measure of applause and astonishment. It is in passages where this specialty can best be exhibited that he takes the conceit out of more pretentious performers, but it is not alone here that he is meritorious. His touch is good, and in certain compositions of his own he plays with a certain small-muscled American vigor and vivacity that are thoroughly irresistible. Wherever Mr. SANDERSON exhibits his powers he captivates the audience at once, and has never, to our knowledge, failed in obtaining an encore. This, we are aware, is no criterion of his merit, but it illustrates at all events the dash and spirit of his style, and how happily it accords with the desire for those qualities. As a composer, Mr. SANDERSON has already attained a leading position. His ideas are clear and good, and his inborn sense of effect enables him to express them in the best possible manner. The "Electric Polka" is one of the most brilliant pieces of the kind ever published, The subject is catching, yet elegant, and the elaboration bold and commanding. Among other works which we have only time to mention, but which we hope will become better known, are "A Lullaby," a "Transcription from Rigoletto," the "Irving Quickstep," and the "Bridal Eve Polka." Mr. SANDERSON's personal qualities are known to his friends and appreciated by them. It is a large circle and we join them in the hope that this amiable young American artist may speedily return to us rich both in health and in pocket." 



 