
**James G. Clark**. In researching Clark, I encountered an 1880 edition of *Potters American Monthly*, an illustrated magazine. Potter devoted several pages to Clark's life and career as an American composer. The article is somewhat lengthy but in my opinion, merits re-publication here to shed light on an otherwise forgotten composer and to enjoy the style of writing of the period.

>"No introduction to the readers of the 'MONTHLY' will be necessary for the subject of Mr. James G. Clark. As poet and recitationist, song composer and vocalist, he has made himself heard and known from one end of the land to the other. For many years he has recited his own poems and sung his own songs throughout nearly every State in the Union, until with them, his face and voice have become familiar and home-like. To this acquaintance already made, it is but natural that the public should feel interested in adding some knowledge of the former life of one who bas done so much to give them entertainment and enjoyment. 
James G. Clark was born in Constantia. Oswego County, New York State; and there. on the shores of the beautiful Oneida Lake he spent his early years: until he attained his majority.. His father was a prominent farmer and surveyor, and the: son's boyhood was passt'd between his studies and assisting about the farm. It is to his mother perhaps that he owes principally his poetical and musical tastes and inclinations, as they are to some degree inherited. She was of a highly sensitive, poetical and musical organization, and was a remarkably sweet and expressive singer. While attending to her household duties she was constantly singing,. and her children were born with her gift, and were natural musicians. When be was but three years old she taught James, seated upon her knee, to sing Kirke White's "Star of Bethlehem" to the air of " Bonnie Doon ", reciting every word distinctly - a trait, by the way, that still marks his public entertainments. 'Tis pity that it should be an uncommon one. 
He was first led to compose music, or rather to improvise it, by becoming acquainted with poems that he longed to sing, but for which he knew no tune. Among them were many of Tom Moore's. These lyrics he would commit to memory, and at work or at play, at home, in the woods. or on the lake. he would sing them to melodies of his own invention; for the music already set to them was unknown to him. The poems of Tom Moore and of Ossian, in little pocket volumes, were constant companions of his toil, and made all labor seem light. After satisfying himself with the melodies he bad set to his favorite poems, be would try their effect upon his companions and then upon his parents and an elder sister, Mrs. Haynes, to whom he was devotedly attached. At home he seems to have met with every encouragement, the. family considering his efforts something remarkable for a boy of sixteen, as he then was. Of this time he writes, "My parents and this noble and beloved sister saw promise in my crude efforts at composition, and were always ready to lend me their aid and sympathy. The idea of ever publishing any of my improvised tunes had not entered my brain. I was fascinated with the wealth of imagery and of melody expressed in the poetry, and sang them almost involuntarily, simply because they seemed. to burst into melody of their own accord as I repeated them over and over in solitude or in company with other boys." The songs of Moore that charmed and haunted him most were " Araby's Daughter," "Dear Harp of my Country," "The Minstrel .Boy," "Let Erin remember the Days of Old," "O Breathe Not his Name" and that exquisite lyric referring to Robert Emmett's betrothed, "She is far from the land where her young Hero sleeps."
During all this time he never supposed that he should subsequently set music to his own poems. and sing them and hear them sung by others in all parts of the land. In fact, he seems to have had no ambition in that direction, never having made any attempts in the way of poetry until after e was seventeen years old. It was then the "spirit manifestations began to appear and make themselves felt, and resulted in innumerable verses on "Time," "The Tempest," "Lost Ships" and kindred topics. They were crude enough, as may be supposed, but always musical, for his ear was so attuned that he could not write otherwise. These he generally submitted to his fa!her, who had some taste for poetry, and a rarely intelligent and critical mind; but as for music, he never learned but three tunes in his life, and those his wife taught him, after many trials that be might join in the family worship. To quote again from a letter of Mr. Clark: "My good father, of blessed memory, always found something to commend as well as criticize in my efforts. and like my mother and elder sister. always encouraged me. At last I wrote a poem of some three hundred lines" called "The Maiden of the Wave, an Indian Tale of Oneida Lake." It was mostly composed as I walked up and down the shores of that beautiful sheet of water 'by moonlight alone.' After rewriting and revising the poem, I took it to Syracuse. New York, and offered it in person to the Daily Standard for publication. It is now an influential Republican newspaper. but was then a little sheet, of limited circulation, edited by Moses Sommer's, who is one of the most genial and generous of men, treated the verdant and embarrassed young poet with great kindness and consideration, and after reading a few lines of the production, accepted it with thanks. It was published. and made me for a time quite famous among tube readers of the paper and in my native village."
Soon after this his father began to think it about time he should choose some business pursuit, and, to that end, he apprenticed him to a country merchant, Mr. H. S. Conde in the village of Central Square, some ten miles west of the old farm. Mr. Conde, an excellent and intelligent man, who perfectly understood his business, did his best to make of the young clerk a. successful merchant; but all his efforts were of little avail. It wasn't in our budding poet to keep store for a living. Nothing pleased him better than to be excused from business and to stroll off by himself through the beech and maple grove at the edge of the village and dream over the poems and songs that, in spite of work, seemed striving for expression within him. And besides, he had something else to dream about. Yes he was in love. But let him give his reminiscence in his own words: "I was in love with Deacon Mcfarlane's sweet·faced adopted daughter, Mary. Between Mary in my heart, and the poetry in my head, I contrived to be but a poor clerk for Mr. Conde. One night after the store was closed, an intense longing came over me to see my ladye love. She was only ten miles away like Sheridan. It was moonlight in June, and Mr. Conde's gray mare was in the barn. Asking no questions, for conscience' sake, concerning my right to appropriate the steed without permission, I saddled the creature and galloped off. I reached the house of Mary at about midnight, and, as was my romantic custom, awoke the good Scotch family with a serenade. Mary dressed herself as speedily as possible and came down to the front door to meet me. After we had watched the moonlight on the lake for an hour or so, I bade her good-night and returned to my place of business. It was after three o'clock in the morning before I and Conde's mare were safely stabled. The face of my employer looked serious when I met him in the morning. It seems that one of the other clerks had seen my departure and arrival and had told of it. The good hearted merchant took me to one side, and without once alluding to my escapade, quietly suggested that he had grave doubts about my being able to make a success of mercantile pursuits, and that I had better give it up. I agreed with him, as I had long been of the same opinion, but did not care to 'break it to him suddenly.' His action saved me the trouble. He was more than just to me in our settlement, and we parted good friends."
And so ended the attempt to make a business man of him. He now had time and opportunity to devote to his studies, that had been for some time neglected; and also to take thorough musical instruction under good masters, of which he eagerly availed himself. It was about this period that he wrote the beautiful and familiar hymn, "The Mountains of Life." His mother had suggested to him to write a hymn, and it was to gratify her that he undertook to do so. For months the subject haunted him, and at last the three stanzas were committed to paper, and presented to his mother for a first reading. "I shall never forget." he writes, "the effect they produced upon her, she read them over several times and literally baptized them in tears. It would seem as though the blessing she imparted to that poem was prophetic of its future career." "The Mountains of Life" was first published in the Syracuse Journal, and has since gone all over the land through the press, and in educational works and church tune books. It has been plagiarized by a dozen hymn-writers, and, as an eminent doctor of divinity has expressed it, "been seed corn for the production of more than a score of popular hymns and revival songs."
It was not long after this that he composed both words and music, that ever popular song, "The Old Mountain Tree." It was published by Oliver Ditson, of Boston, who gave great encouragement to its young and inexperienced author, just started in life, and for which he still feels grateful. The song was received with great favor; and his ambition once fired by the spark of success, he had not long to wait for a new inspiration. "The Rover's Grave" was his next song, and equally well received; and then he followed "The Rock of Liberty," and "Meet Me by the Running Brook."
These songs were first introduced by "Ossian's Bards," a very popular concert troupe, of which Mr. Clark himself was musical director, and the famous humorist, Ossian E. Dodge the organizer and proprietor. When "Ossian's Bards" were disbanded, Mr. Clark took to the field alone, and has given musical readings and ballad entertainments throughout the States ever since, with the exception of a few months in 1839, when he was again associated with Mr. Dodge, with Mr. Charles F. Browne ("Artemus Ward") as advance agent. On the tour he met Coates Kinney, editor of the Zenia (Ohio) News , and author of that beautiful song, ""Rain on the Roof." Mr. Clark set it to music, and the song became very popular, and has since gone into many music and glee books.
Mr. Clark's solo concerts, if they may be so termed, are in the form of musical lectures, combining lecturing, singing and recitation, so as to present a pleasing variety of sentiment, song and humor. They are in no way sensational, and never fail to attract and interest the more cultured and refined of the communities in which he gives hid entertainment.
His last tour with Mr. Dodge was cut short by a cold on the lungs which led to a severe attack of lung fever. His family were then located at Dansville, New York, to which place he hastened. On the morning after his arrival he was prostrated with congested lungs; and for six days he fasted in order to break up the fever. It was during those six days that he composed the words and music of "The Beautiful Hills," perhaps the best song he ever wrote. He says: "As I lay upon my bed, the words, melody, and harmony were all clearly and distinctly revealed to me as though a band of singers had been rendering them within my hearing; and before the impression left me, I had transferred it to music-paper. The song was afterwards published, and dedicated to Dr. James C. Jackson, in whose care I had been, and who had saved my life." Mr. Clark regards "The Beautiful Hills" as his most successful song, and one that has sold more largely than any other, unless it be "The Old Mountain Tree."
"Where Have the Beautiful Gone?" "'Tis Sweet to be Remembered," "Moonlight and Starlight," and "We Cannot Give Thee Up," a temperance song, were all well received, while "Marion Moore," one of the most perfect of his lyrics, was never generally popular.
Among his contributions to the songs of the war, and which were widely copied by the press, are; "Let Me Die With My Face to the Foe," "Freemont's Battle Hymn," "The Voice of the Army" (afterwards reissued as "Logan's Gathering," with a portrait of General Logan on the title page); and "The Children of the Battle-field."
Mr Clark almost invariably wrote the poetry as well as the music for his songs. Among the few exceptions, and which have been successes, might be mentioned the following songs, to which he composed the music; "When the Mists Have Rolled Away," by Anna Herbert; "Dare to Say No," by Horace M. Richards, and "Nowhere to Go," by Mary Sarvossa, both temperance songs; and "We've Drunk from the Same Canteen," a camp song by Charles G. Halpine ("Miles O'Reilly)."
Among Mr. Clark's latest popular songs are "The Isles of the By-and-By," and "Where is Home?" an exquisitely beautiful song, by Father Ryan, the "poet priest." He has also lately composed a campaign song, published by Root & Sons of Chicago called "The Solid North," which promises to be very popular as a political campaign song.
Perhaps Mr. Clark's more enduring fame will rest rather on facility as a songwriter and ability as a poet than as a composer of music. He says himself that his music is only the imperfect incident of sentiment embodied in lyric poetry by himself and others, and that he is never satisfied with his efforts at musical composition. However that may be, the people seem to differ with him in that respect, for few are those whose melodies carry with them a greater charm or give more real, unalloyed enjoyment, They never have the general flashy popularity of many for a time better known but ephemeral productions; but they live, and are in demand by the intelligent and thoughtful year after year, when as his publisher, Oliver Ditson has remarked, "the so-called 'popular songs' are forgotten."
Some of his poems excel in beauty of figure and expression, and will always retain for their author a place in future poetical anthologies. Among his best known poems, some of which travel annually through the press from one end of the Union to the other are "Leona," "The Boatman's Dream," a glowing and beautiful tribute to the Martyr-President, the length of which only precludes its reproduction here; "Art thou Living Yet?" "Marion Moore," "November," "The Mountains of Life," The Beautiful Hills," and "Going Home."
Mr. Clarks poems have appeared in collected book form, though many of them have place in collections and school readers. Several selections may be found accompanied by a graphic sketch of the poet in a volume lately issued by D. Lothrop & Co., Boston, entitled "Waifs and their Authors," edited by A. A. Hopkins of the American Rural Home, Rochester, New York.
He has lately written his most lengthy and important poem, called "The Mount of the Holy Cross," the subject being one of the Colorado mountains of that name, and composed while visiting in that region a short time since. The poem has not as yet been published, but is recited by Mr. Clark at his entertainments, receiving a gratifying reception, not the least of which being a complimentary letter from the poet Longfellow. It is Mr. Clark's intention to issue the ode in book form, illustrated, during the coming season.
Mr. Clark is a man of family, being blessed with a wife and two children living. His present home is at Minneapolis, Minnesota, where he is on the editorial staff of the Saturday Evening Spectator, a first class weekly, literary and family newspaper. At the age of sixteen he was confirmed in the Episcopal Church; but in a characteristic letter, he says, "In religion I am an Independent - a sort of guerilla, fighting error of all kinds, but working either outside or inside of organizations as circumstances may direct. I respect all beliefs through which people find help and inspiration, from the Roman Catholic to the most liberal; but do not choose to confine myself to any one method or set of methods, believing that they all contain a mixture of truth and error, and not wishing to place myself in such relations to them that I will be blinded to the faults or virtues of any."
In the cause of good he has sung like a Sankey; in the cause of temperance he has talked like a Murphy. The portrait of Mr. Clark at the head of this article will give the reader a tolerably fair idea of his personal appearance. He is tall, nearly six feet in height, muscular and robust, weighing one hundred and eighty pounds, and well proportioned. His health is excellent and he prides himself on having always been a total abstinent from stimulants and narcotics. His admirable organization gives him a remarkable power of endurance, whether the call be made upon his intellectual or physical faculties. In conversation he is remarkable for graceful fluency and brilliant expression, while few are gifted with a more ready wit, or with better faculty for agreeable repartee."