
**James Sylvester Scott** was born in Neosho Missouri in 1886, he studied with other notable black composers of the period including John Coleman and later, Scott Joplin. He was one of Scott Joplin's disciples and along with Joseph Lamb, helped create the Missouri "school" of rag music. In 1902 he moved to Carthage, Mo. and started work as a handyman in Dunmar's music store where one day he was discovered playing the piano. When Dunmar learned that Scott had been musically schooled, he promoted him to salesman and song plugger. Dunmar encouraged Scott and he thought so much of Scott's music that he became Scott's publisher. In 1903 he issued two of Scott's works, *A Summer Breeze* and *Fascinator*. His first works clearly showed the influence of Joplin but showed his own originality. Scott stayed on with Dunmar for twelve years or so and during that time he visited St. Louis where he connected with Joplin. Through Joplin, he was introduced to John Stark who published for Joplin and Stark took up Scott's publishing. In 1914 he moved to Kansas City where he was married and began teaching. From around 1916 to '26, Scott also was an organist and musical arranger at the Panama Theater. All this time, Scott continued to write rags all the way till his last one, *Broadway Rag* in 1922. *Frog Legs Rag* is one of his earlier rags and perhaps one of his most popular. He also wrote the *Kansas City Rag* (1907) and *The Great Scott Rag* (1909). In addition to rags, he also wrote some more traditional songs including *Take Me Out To Lakeside* (1914) and *The Shimmie Shake* in 1920. In his later years, Scott suffered from dropsy and was often in pain yet still continued playing the piano. He died in a hospital in Springfield, Mo. in 1938. His music is often compared to Joplin's and some experts have described it as clearer and more lyrical than Joplin's. 



 