
**Kerry Mills** (1869 - 1948) was an American composer of popular music during the Tin Pan Alley era. His stylistically diverse music ranged from ragtime to cakewalk to marches. He was most prolific between 1895 and 1918. Mills was born Frederick Allen Mills in Philadelphia. He trained as a violinist and was working as head of the Violin Department of the University of Michigan School of Music when he began composing. 
Mills moved to New York City in 1895 where he started a music publishing firm, F. A Mills, from which he published his own music. His first published song was *Rastus on Parade* written in 1893. That song was one of the first published "Cakewalks." He went on to publish some more of his own songs that may have been instumental in popularizing syncopation with the Tin Pan Alley writers. Among his many published works are: *Any Old Port in a Storm* (1908), *At A Georgia Camp-meeting* (1897 or 1899, accounts vary), *Impecunious Davis*, *In The City Of Sighs And Tears* (1902), *Just For The Sake Of Society*, *Kerry Mills' Barn Dance*, *Let's All Go Up To Maud's*, *Like A Star That Falls From Heaven*, *The Longest Way 'Round Is The Sweetest Way Home* (1908), *Red Wing* (1907, words by Thurland Chattaway). Mills adapted the melody from Schumann's *Merry Peasant* and perhaps his greatest hit, *Meet Me In St Louis, Louis* which was originally written in 1904 with words by Andrew B. Sterling and was revived in the 1944 movie, *Meet Me In St. Louis* starring Judy Garland. Mills died in Hawthorne, California.
Some facts for this biography were taken from From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia, in accordance with the GNU Free Documentation License.