
**Luella Lockwood Moore** (Born 1864, Pontiac, MI; died November 1927, Detroit). Usually referred to as Mrs. Luella Lockwood Moore in the press, this highly respected Michigan composer was the daughter of Timothy Lockwood, a popular music composer of the Civil War era. Her Nov. 21, 1927 obituary said that she "never received any conventional music education, but as a child she played in the churches of Pontiac after learning the hymns by ear from her mother." In 1915 the Detroit Symphony Orchestra presented Moore's orchestral suite, *My Lady's Boudoir*, at one of their Wednesday night programs. Moore was the first Detroit composer ever to be so honored. By then she had several popular instrumentals and ballads to her credit. 
Her father was a contemporary of Stephen Foster; composed approximately 55 songs and piano pieces, taught music and was a partner in a music business in Pontiac, MI before dying in 1870 at the age of 35. His wife, Luella's mother, also a musician, supported the family by teaching large music classes and putting on musical extravaganzas. Luella and her brother LeBaron sang in these musicals from the age of five to their upper teens. 
She was married to George Frederick Moore II, a principal stockholder of Edison-Moore Wholesale Dry Goods Merchants. They had a son, George Frederick Moore III, and a daughter, Ruth. Her husband preceded her in death by 30 years. She then lived with her son at 1129 Atkinson Ave., Detroit until his death in 1926. In November of the following year, she suffered a three-day illness and passed away in this home. She was survived by a brother, Baron Lockwood, of Sault St. Marie, MI, and a grandson, Jack Wiant, of Detroit. She was buried in Detroit's Elmwood Cemetery.
Her published works include. *Montana Anna*, 1909; *Paprika "Hot Stuff*, *March Two-Step*; 1909; *That Auto Ought to Go*, 1909; *Arcadia*, *Intermezzo*, 1910; *Snowflakes, A Novelette*, 1910; *Unspoken Words*, *A Melody for Piano*, 1910; *This World Would Be A Lonesome Land, Without You, Dear*, 1911; *Laddie, A True Blue*, 1914; *Love's Eternity*, 1915 and *Faded Love Letters (of Mine)*, 1922. Moore also wrote under the pseudonyms of Marion Arlington, and Phil & Beth Moore (Biographical information in part supplied by Nora Hulse, ragtime pianist, recording artist, author and one of the premier researchers on women composers.)