
**Robert Levenson** (1897 - 1961) was born to Samuel and Paulina Levenson in Boston, Ma. (Dorchester/Roxbury area) on July 19, 1897. He had two brothers, an older one, Louis, and a younger one, Henry. The three of them used to play music at social occasions in the area. Henry went on to be a professional musician, playing piano and singing solo with his whiskey baritone voice (he wasn't a drinker, just sounded that way). You could see him 35 years ago as the regular piano player at Bill's Gay Nineties Bar in New York. Brother Henry wrote music too and Rudy Vallee liked one song enough to tinker with it and added his own name as a co-composer. 
Robert attended Brimmer School in Boston and later Boston Latin School, the oldest public school in the country. In the early 1900s a student had to pass an entrance exam to attend. Graduating in 1913 he was accepted at Harvard (Class of 1917). It was during this time that he began to haunt the Boston music publishers with his lyrics, particularly, succeeding in winning first prize for his words to the famous WW I marching song, *The National Emblem March* by E.E. Bagley, Jr. This march is easily the equal of any American march and is also one of the most popular and often played marches from our early musical heritage. After Levenson wrote the lyrics, all future editions of the march included them.
After Harvard, Levenson worked in Boston, particularly as a salesman. He continued to write songs in collaboration with others who appreciated his poetic talent and gracious personality. He did some acting and directing of plays and reviews, continuing also to write fun lyrics for many organizations' annual meetings and music nights.
He moved to New York City in the mid-1920s, met and married, Evelyn Lippman, and though he ended up working for Boston Knitting Mills, stayed in NY as their top salesman and designer of polo shirts and other knit clothing. He was very active in the community in which he lived, Lawrence, LI, serving as Village Trustee, Village Historian, and Honorary Fire Chief. He put in a great deal of time in the Jewish community as well, as Treasurer, Board Member, Chairman of the Music and Religious School committes of Temple Israel of Lawrence, as well as President of Long Island Lodge, B'nai B'rith.
Robert Levenson continued to sing wherever he went, performing his own songs as well as opera, and Broadway numbers at the invitation of local organizations. He died suddenly at the age of 63 in the airport in Rome, Italy in 1961 as he was returning home with the Temple group from a pilgramage visit to Israel and Jerusalem. He is survived by two children, Paul and Judith, five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. Among his other credits are a 1925 song Drifting 'Neath the Silver Moon
(Levenson biography graciously provided by his son, Paul Levenson)